docs: add a section about Censorship Timeout (#1945)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: arbitrum-docs/how-arbitrum-works/03-sequencer.mdx

### Decentralized Fair Sequencing

Arbitrum’s long-term vision includes transitioning from a centralized Sequencer to a decentralized, fair sequencing model. In this framework, a committee of servers (or validators) collectively determines transaction ordering, ensuring fairness, reducing the influence of any single party, and making it more resistant to manipulation. By requiring a supermajority consensus, this approach distributes sequencing power among multiple honest participants, mitigates the risks of front-running or censorship, and aligns with the broader blockchain principles of enhanced security, transparency, and decentralization.

> ## Censorship Timeout

Reviewer: I think it makes sense to move this section on top of ### Decentralized Fair Sequencing section.

Author: Done

> ## Censorship Timeout

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Censorship timeout
```

As mentioned in the original [Arbitrum BoLD Forum Post](https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/aip-bold-permissionless-validation-for-arbitrum/23232/70?), the initial release of [Arbitrum BoLD](../how-arbitrum-works/bold/gentle-introduction.mdx) will come with a feature called ”Censorship Timeout” (originally called “Delay Buffer”). For Arbitrum One and Arbitrum Nova, it is proposed that this feature be enabled by default alongside BoLD’s upgrade.

Censorship Timeout aims to limit the negative effects of:

- Prolonged sequencer censorship, and/or,
- Unexpected sequencer outages.

### How the Censorship Timeout feature works

> To explain how this feature improves the security of chains settling to Arbitrum One and Arbitrum Nova, consider the scenario where an L3’s parent chain sequencer (the L2 sequencer) is censoring or offline. In such a case, every assertion and/or sub-challenge move would need to wait 24 hours before they could bypass the L2 sequencer (using the SequencerInbox’s forceInclusion method described here). In this scenario, challenge resolution would be delayed by a time `t` where `t = (24 hours) * number of moves for a challenge`. To illustrate with sample numbers, if a challenge takes 50 sequential moves to resolve, then the delay would be 50 days.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To explain how this feature improves the security of chains settling to Arbitrum One and Arbitrum Nova, consider the scenario where an L3’s parent chain sequencer (the L2 sequencer) is censoring or offline. In such a case, every assertion and/or sub-challenge move would need to wait 24 hours before bypassing the L2 sequencer (using the SequencerInbox’s forceInclusion method described here). In this scenario, challenge resolution would be delayed by a time `t` where `t = (24 hours) * number of moves for a challenge`. To illustrate with sample numbers, if a challenge takes 50 sequential moves to resolve, then the delay would be 50 days.
```

> The Censorship Timeout feature mitigates this by implementing a time threshold that is decremented when unexpected delays in assertion posting occur due to one (or all) of the above mentioned cases of censorship or sequencer outage. Once that time threshold is met, the force inclusion window is lowered - effectively enabling entities to make moves without the 24 hour delay-per-move.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Censorship Timeout feature mitigates this by implementing a time threshold that is decremented when unexpected delays in assertion posting occur due to one (or all) of the above-mentioned cases of censorship or sequencer outage. Once that time threshold is met, the force inclusion window is lowered, enabling entities to make moves without the 24-hour delay-per-move.
```

> The Censorship Timeout feature mitigates this by implementing a time threshold that is decremented when unexpected delays in assertion posting occur due to one (or all) of the above mentioned cases of censorship or sequencer outage. Once that time threshold is met, the force inclusion window is lowered - effectively enabling entities to make moves without the 24 hour delay-per-move.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Censorship Timeout feature mitigates this by decreasing the force inclusion threshold when unexpected delays in delayed message inclusion occur due to one (or all) of the above mentioned cases of censorship or sequencer outage, enabling entities to make moves without the 24 hour delay-per-move.
```

Reviewer 3: not sure if this is the right way to phrase it, but i'm basically trying to get at this https://github.com/OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs/pull/1945#discussion_r1915516848

> Under reasonable parameterization, the sequencer could be offline or censoring for 24 hours twice, referred to as the `delay buffer`, before the force inclusion window is effectively dropped from 24 hours to a minimum inclusion period or `threshold` of 30 minutes. The force inclusion window gradually (over weeks) replenishes to its original value over time as long as the sequencer is on “good behavior” at some rate known as the `replenish rate`. An example of “good behavior” could be the default and normal sequencing of messages without unexpected delays.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Under reasonable parameterization, the sequencer could be offline or censoring for 24 hours twice, referred to as the `delay buffer`, before the force inclusion window is effectively dropped from 24 hours to a minimum inclusion period or `threshold` of 30 minutes. The force inclusion window gradually (over weeks) replenishes to its original value over time as long as the sequencer is on “good behavior” at some rate known as the `replenish rate`. An example of “good behavior” could be the default and normal sequencing of messages without unexpected delays.
```

> Under reasonable parameterization, the sequencer could be offline or censoring for 24 hours twice, referred to as the `delay buffer`, before the force inclusion window is effectively dropped from 24 hours to a minimum inclusion period or `threshold` of 30 minutes. The force inclusion window gradually (over weeks) replenishes to its original value over time as long as the sequencer is on “good behavior” at some rate known as the `replenish rate`. An example of “good behavior” could be the default and normal sequencing of messages without unexpected delays.

Reviewer 3: the force inclusion window is actually `min(delayBuffer, delayBlocks)`, where `delayBlocks` is a constant, currently set to 24 hours, and `delayBuffer` grows and shrinks between `30 minutes <= delayBuffer <= 48 hours`

Author: How about this?

```suggestion
The force inclusion window is actually the lesser of either the `delayBuffer` and `delayBlocks` where delayBlocks is a constant, currently set to 24 hours, and `delayBuffer` grows and shrinks between 30 minutes <= `delayBuffer` <= 48 hours. How the `delayBuffer` value "grows and shrinks" will depend on how long the sequencer is offline or censoring transactions. If the sequencer is offline or censoring transactions for long enough, the `delayBuffer` will effectively decrement to the `threshold` value, which is set to 30 minutes on Arbitrum One and 1 hour on Arbitrum Nova.
```

Reviewer 3: that's perfect

Below are the initial, proposed parameter values for the Censorship Timeout feature for Arbitrum One and Arbitrum Nova:

> - `delay buffer` = 14400 L1 Ethereum blocks (2 days)
> - `threshold` = 150 L1 Ethereum blocks (30 minutes) for Arbitrum One and 300 L1 Ethereum blocks (1 hour) for Arbitrum Nova
> - `replenish rate` = 5% (meaning 1 day is replenished every 20 days, or roughly a 95% uptime)
> 
> We believe that the Censorship Timeout feature provides stronger guarantees of censorship resistance for Arbitrum chains - especially those that settle to Arbitrum One or Arbitrum Nova. As always, chain owners can decide whether to utilize this feature for their chain and can also change the default parameters as they see fit for their use case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `delay buffer` = 14400 L1 Ethereum blocks (2 days)
- `threshold` = 150 L1 Ethereum blocks (30 minutes) for Arbitrum One and 300 L1 Ethereum blocks (1 hour) for Arbitrum Nova
- `replenish rate` = 5% (meaning 1 day is replenished every 20 days or roughly a 95% uptime)

We believe that the Censorship Timeout feature provides stronger guarantees of censorship resistance for Arbitrum chains - especially those that settle to Arbitrum One or Arbitrum Nova. As always, chain owners can decide whether to utilize this feature for their chain and can also change the default parameters as they see fit for their use case.
```
